Cape Town – A male staff member at a high school in Grassy Park is allegedly preying on learners and other staff members to quench his thirst for sex and the principal has allegedly poured cold water on the allegations, a source has said. NewsNow South Africa is in possession of email correspondence which allegedly happened between Fairmount Secondary School principal Mr TV Klaasen and the whistleblower but even after enquiring on the school’s position nothing has materialised. The suspect is said to have continuously preyed on school girls for the past three years and there is video evidence that Newsnow South Africa has seen but that also has not been interesting enough for the authorities to act. In the videos seen by our team, the suspect is seen quenching his sexual thirst with different girls, in their full school uniform, from two different schools in Grassy Park.  The videos suggest the suspect was filming himself.  In other videos and pictures, the suspect is seen with other female staff members in what looks like his office and sometimes in classrooms. While the whistleblower has offered to supply the evidence no action has been done from the school authorities side.   After the outcry in Gauteng, where teachers and support staff were exposed for sexual misconduct against learners, one would expect other provinces to be on high alert. This, however, has not been the case in Western Cape province as there is proof also that there was correspondence with Education MEC Debbie Schäfer’s office but no action has been initiated yet.  In a related matter, 77 Western Cape teachers were involved in cases of sexual misconduct against pupils in the last three years. Education MEC Debbie Schäfer said that in the 2016/17 financial year there were 21 cases reported to the department, Cape Argus reported. In the two previous years, there were 28 cases reported in each year. Of all the cases reported, nine were incidents where a teacher had sexual relations with a learner. In one case, a female teacher reportedly had sexual encounters with a male pupil. Schäfer said these cases were receiving attention. Chris Hart, Western Cape chief executive of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA, said the abuse of learners was totally unacceptable. These content links are provided by Content.ad. Both Content.ad and the web site upon which the links are displayed may receive compensation when readers click on these links. Some of the content you are redirected to may be sponsored content. View our privacy policy here. To learn how you can use Content.ad to drive visitors to your content or add this service to your site, please contact us at info@content.ad. Family-Friendly Content  Only recommend family-friendly content Website owners select the type of content that appears in our units. However, if you would like to ensure that Content.ad always displays family-friendly content on this device, regardless of what site you are on, check the option below. Learn More “We are completely against the abuse of learners, and where our members are involved, the necessary steps are taken. We have conducted advocacy workshops to train teachers about these issues.” Asked if there was a specific area where sexual abuse of learners was prevalent, he said: “It is difficult to gauge that. There are times when one teacher is responsible for multiple incidents. And those teachers can move between different regions.” Jonovan Rustin, SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) provincial chairperson, said they were aware of the “ever-increasing” problem of sexual misconduct at schools. “We have had a number of these incidents, and it is really criminal, to say the least. We have dealt with our members, and the department has also dealt with those that have been found guilty of this conduct. If they are found guilty they should not be in this profession; we can’t allow our children to be sexually harassed and abused,” he said. Rustin said they also provided training to their members to ensure they knew the rules. “These cases are spread all over the province. We can’t say it is just in the rural or urban areas; we are seeing it all over. It is mostly a major problem in high schools. “Teachers should know that they should not engage with learners; they should know where to draw the line,” he said. Fairmount Secondary School and Western Cape Department of Education have not yet responded to the allegations. 