For voting in support of the governing ANC, the South African revolutionary socialist political party EFF, has expelled six of its councillors in the Mogale City council on the West Rand.  The EFF’s Central Command resolved to expel its top officials after they contravened the EFF decision not to attend the Mogale City Budget vote council meeting in which the ANC needed its budget to be passed.  According to a statement released by the EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi on Saturday, the officials voted for the ANC against the wish of the people of Mogale City.  “On the 11th of July 2017, six EFF Councillors contravened the EFF decision not to attend the Mogale City Budget vote Council meeting in which the ANC needed its budget to be passed. These councillors not only helped for a Council meeting quorum to be constituted, they also voted in favour of the proposed ANC budget,” said. There is no exception to this conduct as it returned the public purse into the hands of the ANC. This is the same ANC that the people of Mogale City removed from the government following the 2016 local government elections outcomes. It is the same ANC that has been looting the public purse since 1994 to the exclusion and marginalisation of our people.”  Ndlozi also stated that the mandate not to vote with the ANC is consistent with the “non-negotiable cardinal pillar number seven” – the party’s policy position to fight corruption. “Thus, these six councillors, namely Ms Nhlanhla Shilubane, Ms Nomonde Nkatu, Ms Lemogang Modisane, Mr Eric Baloyi, Mr Edward Motsitsi and Mr Simanga Mkhumbeni, essentially betrayed our revolutionary tenant.  Accordingly, they have been expelled,” he said, adding that the EFF Central Command Team confirmed the sentence the party’s National Disciplinary Committee, as required by the EFF’s code of conduct. As per the EFF Code of Conduct and Revolutionary Discipline‚ the sentences of suspension‚ or expulsion‚ must be confirmed by the CCT.  The CCT, therefore, confirmed a sentence of expulsion as reached by the EFF National Disciplinary Committee.  It said however that the six EFF councillors had the right to appeal but that the expulsion sentence was in “effect even when under appeal”  The EFF councillors have the right to appeal, however, the expulsion sentence is in effect even when under appeal. The EFF will communicate with the Mogale City Municipal Manager so as to declare the six vacancies and so that the EFF can replace all the six councillors, Ndlozi further explained.  “The EFF will communicate with the Mogale City Municipal Manager so as to declare the six vacancies and so that the EFF can replace all the six councillors‚” the party added.Read more